# Models

Models work as an abstraction for the database and work as an ORM to help us create tables and perform CRUD operations.

#### Basic example

```
from django.db import models

class Person(models.Model):
    first_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
    last_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
```

**first_name** and **last_name** are fields in the table that accept strings with a max length of 30 characters. Automatically, Django also adds an id field that works as a **primary key** that is auto incremented.

#### Using the model

In **settings.py** there is an **INSTALLED_APPS** list. We add our app in the array so it looks like this

```
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    # ...
    "myapp",
    # ...
]
```

#### Fields

Field types % Field option

```
class Musician(models.Model):
    first_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    last_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    instrument = models.CharField(max_length=100)
```

#### Null vs Blank

In Django models, null and blank are two options that can be used when defining fields. They serve different purposes and affect the database schema and validation rules differently.

##### null:

`null` is a database-related option that determines if a field can store a NULL value in the database. When null=True, the field will allow NULL values to be stored in the database. When null=False, the field will not allow NULL values, which is the default behavior.
For example, if you have a CharField with null=True:

```
class Person(models.Model):
    middle_name = models.CharField(max_length=100, null=True)
```

This allows the middle_name field to store NULL values in the database, indicating that the middle name is not provided.

##### blank:

`blank` is a validation-related option that determines if a field can be left empty when submitting a form. When `blank=True`, the field is allowed to be empty during form validation. When `blank=False`, the field is required to have a value, which is the default behavior.
For example, if you have a CharField with `blank=True`:

```
class Person(models.Model):
middle_name = models.CharField(max_length=100, blank=True)
```

This allows the middle_name field to be left empty when submitting a form, and no validation error will be raised.

In summary:

`null`: Affects the database schema, determining if a field can store `NULL` values in the database.
`blank`: Affects form validation, determining if a field is allowed to be empty when submitting a form.
It's common to use both options together for optional fields, especially when dealing with strings:

```
class Person(models.Model):
middle_name = models.CharField(max_length=100, null=True, blank=True)
```

In this case, the middle_name field is allowed to store NULL values in the database, and it is also allowed to be empty during form validation.
